Updated constraints doc following slack (#5995)
dbt-labs/docs.getdbt.com: website/docs/reference/resource-properties/constraints.md

</File>

### Custom constraints on models for advanced configuration of tables

> In dbt Cloud, you can use custom constraints on models for advanced configuration of tables. Custom constraints allow you to set [masking policies](https://docs.snowflake.com/en/user-guide/security-column-intro#what-are-masking-policies) in Snowflake when using a  Create Table As Select (CTAS).

Author: ```suggestion
In dbt Cloud, you can use custom constraints on models for advanced configuration of tables. For example, custom constraints allow you to set [masking policies](https://docs.snowflake.com/en/user-guide/security-column-intro#what-are-masking-policies) in Snowflake when using a Create Table As Select (CTAS).

Each data warehouse has its own set of parameters that can be set for columns in their CTAS statements. For example [Databricks](https://docs.databricks.com/en/sql/language-manual/sql-ref-syntax-ddl-create-table-using.html) and [BigQuery](https://cloud.google.com/bigquery/docs/reference/standard-sql/data-definition-language#column_name_and_column_schema)".
```

models:

- name: my_model
config:
contract: {enforced: true}
materialized: table
columns:
    - name: id
    data_type: int
    constraints:
        - type: custom
        expression: "tag (my_tag = 'my_value')" #  A custom SQL expression used to enforce a specific constraint on a column.

```

</File>

Using this syntax requires configuring all the columns and their types as it’s the only way where to send a create or replace `<cols_info_with_masking> mytable as ...`. It’s not possible to do it with just a partial list of columns. This means making sure the columns and constraints fields are fully defined.

To generate a YAML with all the columns, you could also use `generate_model_yaml` from [dbt-codegen](https://github.com/dbt-labs/dbt-codegen/tree/0.12.1/?tab=readme-ov-file#generate_model_yaml-source).

Alternatively, you can add a masking policy without tags:

<File name='models/constraints_example.sql'>

```shell

models:
  - name: my_model
    config:
      contract: {enforced: true}
      materialized: table
    columns:
      - name: id
        data_type: int
        constraints:
          - type: custom
            expression: "masking policy my_policy"

```

</File>

> Each data warehouse has its own set of parameters that can be set for columns in their CTAS statements. For example for [DBX](https://docs.databricks.com/en/sql/language-manual/sql-ref-syntax-ddl-create-table-using.html) for [BigQuery](https://cloud.google.com/bigquery/docs/reference/standard-sql/data-definition-language#column_name_and_column_schema).

Author: ```suggestion

```

</File>

### Custom constraints on models for advanced configuration of tables

In dbt Cloud, you can use custom constraints on models for advanced configuration of tables. For example, custom constraints allow you to set [masking policies](https://docs.snowflake.com/en/user-guide/security-column-intro#what-are-masking-policies) in Snowflake when using a Create Table As Select (CTAS).

Each data warehouse has its own set of parameters that can be set for columns in their CTAS statements. For example [Databricks](https://docs.databricks.com/en/sql/language-manual/sql-ref-syntax-ddl-create-table-using.html) and [BigQuery](https://cloud.google.com/bigquery/docs/reference/standard-sql/data-definition-language#column_name_and_column_schema)".

> Contracts and constraints support tag-based masking policies using the following syntax:

Author: ```suggestion
Here are a few examples of how to implement tag-based masking policies with contracts and constraints using the following syntax:
```

<File name='models/constraints_example.sql'>

```yaml

models:

- name: my_model
config:

> contract: {enforced: true}

Author: ```suggestion
    contract: {enforced: true}
```

> materialized: table

Author: ```suggestion
    materialized: table
```

> columns:

Author: ```suggestion
  columns:
```

    - name: id

>     data_type: int

Author: ```suggestion
      data_type: int
```

>     constraints:

Author: ```suggestion
      constraints:
```

```

</File>

> Using this syntax requires defining all the columns and their types as it’s the only way where to send a create or replace `<cols_info_with_masking> mytable as ...`. It’s not possible to do it with just a partial list of columns.

Author: ```suggestion
Using this syntax requires configuring all the columns and their types as it’s the only way where to send a create or replace `<cols_info_with_masking> mytable as ...`. It’s not possible to do it with just a partial list of columns. This means making sure the columns and constraints fields are fully defined.
```

>         expression: "tag (my_tag = 'my_value')" #  A custom SQL expression used to enforce a specific constraint on a column.

Author: ```suggestion
          expression: "tag (my_tag = 'my_value')" #  A custom SQL expression used to enforce a specific constraint on a column.
```

To generate a YAML with all the columns, you could also use `generate_model_yaml` from [dbt-codegen](https://github.com/dbt-labs/dbt-codegen/tree/0.12.1/?tab=readme-ov-file#generate_model_yaml-source).

Alternatively, you can add a masking policy without tags:

<File name='models/constraints_example.sql'>

```shell

models:
  - name: my_model
    config:
      contract: {enforced: true}
      materialized: table
    columns:
      - name: id
        data_type: int
        constraints:
          - type: custom
            expression: "masking policy my_policy"

```

</File>

> :::info

Author: ```suggestion

```

> ```shell

Author: ```suggestion
```yaml
```

> :::

Author: ```suggestion
```

</File>

### Custom constraints on models for advanced configuration of tables

> In dbt Cloud, you can use custom constraints on models for advanced configuration of tables. Custom constraints allow you to set [masking policies](https://docs.snowflake.com/en/user-guide/security-column-intro#what-are-masking-policies) in Snowflake when using a  Create Table As Select (CTAS).

Reviewer: Masking policies is just one example, but there could be other use cases.

Author: Hiya @b-per 

I could reword this to something like:

"In dbt Cloud, you can use custom constraints on models for advanced configuration of tables. For example, custom constraints allow you to set [masking policies](https://docs.snowflake.com/en/user-guide/security-column-intro#what-are-masking-policies) in Snowflake when using a  Create Table As Select (CTAS).

Each data warehouse has its own set of parameters that can be set for columns in their CTAS statements. For example for [DBX](https://docs.databricks.com/en/sql/language-manual/sql-ref-syntax-ddl-create-table-using.html) for [BigQuery](https://cloud.google.com/bigquery/docs/reference/standard-sql/data-definition-language#column_name_and_column_schema)". and then get rid of the callout at the bottom

Kind Regards
Natalie

Reviewer: I think I like this. I still have the comment about using DBX or Databricks

> Masking policies conceal sensitive data from unauthorized access, while still allowing authorized users to retrieve the data during query execution.

Reviewer: I don't think that we should explain masking policies in this section of the docs. If people want to set them I'd expect them to know what they are.

> Masking policies conceal sensitive data from unauthorized access, while still allowing authorized users to retrieve the data during query execution.

Author: ```suggestion

```

> Contracts and constraints support tag-based masking policies using the following syntax:

Reviewer 2: i think before introducing the tag way, should we say there are a couple of ways to do this:

- the tag way (with a link to the tag way)
- the non-tag way (with a link to that)

<File name='models/constraints_example.sql'>

> ```shell

Reviewer 2: this should be yaml
```suggestion
```yaml
```

> models:

Reviewer 2: the yaml doesn't have the correct indentation. suggest fixing the yaml format so it's clean and easier for users to copy/paste.

- name: my_model
config:
contract: {enforced: true}
materialized: table
columns:
    - name: id
    data_type: int
    constraints:
        - type: custom
        expression: "tag (my_tag = 'my_value')" #  A custom SQL expression used to enforce a specific constraint on a column.

```

</File>

> Using this syntax requires defining all the columns and their types as it’s the only way where to send a create or replace `<cols_info_with_masking> mytable as ...`. It’s not possible to do it with just a partial list of columns.

Reviewer 2: i personally don't fully understand what it means to 'defining all the columns and their type'  - could we have an example or be more specific? like for eg:
`Using this syntax requires configuring all the columns and their types as it’s the only way where to send a create or replace `<cols_info_with_masking> mytable as ...`. It’s not possible to do it with just a partial list of columns. This means making sure the `columns` and `constraints` fields are fully defined.`

To generate a YAML with all the columns, you could also use `generate_model_yaml` from [dbt-codegen](https://github.com/dbt-labs/dbt-codegen/tree/0.12.1/?tab=readme-ov-file#generate_model_yaml-source).

Alternatively, you can add a masking policy without tags:

<File name='models/constraints_example.sql'>

```shell

models:
  - name: my_model
    config:
      contract: {enforced: true}
      materialized: table
    columns:
      - name: id
        data_type: int
        constraints:
          - type: custom
            expression: "masking policy my_policy"

```

</File>

:::info

> Each data warehouse has its own set of parameters that can be set for columns in their CTAS statements. For example for [DBX](https://docs.databricks.com/en/sql/language-manual/sql-ref-syntax-ddl-create-table-using.html) for [BigQuery](https://cloud.google.com/bigquery/docs/reference/standard-sql/data-definition-language#column_name_and_column_schema).

Reviewer: Do we usually abbreviate DBX like this?

Reviewer 2: we usually spell it out!

Author: Hiya @b-per @mirnawong1 

Apologies for the DBX bit. I had a brief look through slack and it appears to be capitalised but I had a detailed look on Slack today and some people type dbx in lower case.  Would you recommend (for best practice) I use lower case or capitalise dbx?

Kind Regards

Reviewer 2: for technical documentation, i'd recommend 'Databricks' rather than abbreviations like DBX since that not might be known for usrs.

> Each data warehouse has its own set of parameters that can be set for columns in their CTAS statements. For example for [DBX](https://docs.databricks.com/en/sql/language-manual/sql-ref-syntax-ddl-create-table-using.html) for [BigQuery](https://cloud.google.com/bigquery/docs/reference/standard-sql/data-definition-language#column_name_and_column_schema).

Reviewer: See my other comment in the PR discussion, but I don't think that adding information to other data warehouses is relevant if we are currently only showing those docs when people select Snowflake

> Each data warehouse has its own set of parameters that can be set for columns in their CTAS statements. For example for [DBX](https://docs.databricks.com/en/sql/language-manual/sql-ref-syntax-ddl-create-table-using.html) for [BigQuery](https://cloud.google.com/bigquery/docs/reference/standard-sql/data-definition-language#column_name_and_column_schema).

Reviewer 2: imho i think we either don't link to any warehouse and say 'refer to the specific data warehouse documentation for more details'. or link to all of them. rather than a few.

Reviewer 2: also i don't know if it's better to have this callout earlier, rather than the bottom?

</div>

</WHCode>

### Custom constraints on models for advanced configuration of tables

> In dbt Cloud, you can use custom constraints on models for advanced configuration of tables. For example, custom constraints allow you to set [masking policies](https://docs.snowflake.com/en/user-guide/security-column-intro#what-are-masking-policies) in Snowflake when using a Create Table As Select (CTAS).

Reviewer 2: is this only for dbt cloud or can all users use this?

Reviewer 2: i thought it was all?

> In dbt Cloud, you can use custom constraints on models for advanced configuration of tables. For example, custom constraints allow you to set [masking policies](https://docs.snowflake.com/en/user-guide/security-column-intro#what-are-masking-policies) in Snowflake when using a Create Table As Select (CTAS).

Author: ```suggestion
In dbt Cloud, you can use custom constraints on models for advanced configuration of tables. Different data warehouses will support different syntax and different capabilities, but custom constraints will always allow you to add configuration to specific columns.

For example, custom constraints allow you to set [masking policies](https://docs.snowflake.com/en/user-guide/security-column-intro#what-are-masking-policies) in Snowflake when using a Create Table As Select (CTAS).
```

> Each data warehouse has its own set of parameters that can be set for columns in their CTAS statements. For example [Databricks](https://docs.databricks.com/en/sql/language-manual/sql-ref-syntax-ddl-create-table-using.html) and [BigQuery](https://cloud.google.com/bigquery/docs/reference/standard-sql/data-definition-language#column_name_and_column_schema)".

Reviewer 2: not sure why we have an apostrophe there?

> Each data warehouse has its own set of parameters that can be set for columns in their CTAS statements. For example [Databricks](https://docs.databricks.com/en/sql/language-manual/sql-ref-syntax-ddl-create-table-using.html) and [BigQuery](https://cloud.google.com/bigquery/docs/reference/standard-sql/data-definition-language#column_name_and_column_schema)".

Author: ```suggestion
Each data warehouse has its own set of parameters that can be set for columns in their CTAS statements. For example [Databricks](https://docs.databricks.com/en/sql/language-manual/sql-ref-syntax-ddl-create-table-using.html) and [BigQuery](https://cloud.google.com/bigquery/docs/reference/standard-sql/data-definition-language#column_name_and_column_schema).
```

> 

Reviewer 2: i think before introducing the tag way, should we say there are a couple of ways to do this:

the tag way (with a link to the tag way)
the non-tag way (with a link to that)

Author: Hiya @mirnawong1 

Thanks for this suggestion. Do you know which links would be best to add to the docs for the tag and non-tag ways?

Kind Regards
Natalie

Here's an example of how to implement tag-based masking policies with contracts and constraints using the following syntax:

> <File name='models/constraints_example.sql'>

Author: ```suggestion
<File name='models/constraints_example.yml'>
```

> <File name='models/constraints_example.sql'>

Reviewer 2: should the file names end in .sql? or .yml?

> ```shell

Author: ```suggestion
```yaml
```

> ```shell

Reviewer 2: i'd change this to `yaml`

models:

> - name: my_model

Author: ```suggestion
    - name: my_model
```

> - name: my_model

Reviewer 2: yaml isn't formatted correctly, sugg reviewing all yaml code examples and format them correctly

>     - name: my_model

Author: ```suggestion
  - name: my_model
```

> config:

Author: ```suggestion
    config:
```

>     contract: {enforced: true}

Author: ```suggestion
      contract: {enforced: true}
```

>     materialized: table

Author: ```suggestion
      materialized: table
```

>   columns:

Author: ```suggestion
    columns:
```

>     columns:

Author: ```suggestion
  columns:
```

>   columns:

Author: ```suggestion
    columns:
```

    - name: id
      data_type: int
      constraints:
        - type: custom
          expression: "tag (my_tag = 'my_value')" #  A custom SQL expression used to enforce a specific constraint on a column.

```

</File>

Using this syntax requires configuring all the columns and their types as it’s the only way where to send a create or replace `<cols_info_with_masking> mytable as ...`. It’s not possible to do it with just a partial list of columns. This means making sure the columns and constraints fields are fully defined.

To generate a YAML with all the columns, you could also use `generate_model_yaml` from [dbt-codegen](https://github.com/dbt-labs/dbt-codegen/tree/0.12.1/?tab=readme-ov-file#generate_model_yaml-source).

Alternatively, you can add a masking policy without tags:

> <File name='models/constraints_example.sql'>

Author: ```suggestion
<File name='models/constraints_example.yml'>
```

> ```shell

Author: ```suggestion
```yaml
```

> ```shell

Reviewer 2: not sure why we're using shell here? but i think it should be yaml

</div>

</WHCode>

### Custom constraints on models for advanced configuration of tables

In dbt Cloud, you can use custom constraints on models for advanced configuration of tables. Different data warehouses will support different syntax and different capabilities, but custom constraints will always allow you to add configuration to specific columns.

For example, custom constraints allow you to set [masking policies](https://docs.snowflake.com/en/user-guide/security-column-intro#what-are-masking-policies) in Snowflake when using a Create Table As Select (CTAS).

Each data warehouse has its own set of parameters that can be set for columns in their CTAS statements. For example [Databricks](https://docs.databricks.com/en/sql/language-manual/sql-ref-syntax-ddl-create-table-using.html) and [BigQuery](https://cloud.google.com/bigquery/docs/reference/standard-sql/data-definition-language#column_name_and_column_schema).

> Here's an example of how to implement tag-based masking policies with contracts and constraints using the following syntax:

Author: ```suggestion
There are some different scenarios of implementing contracts and constraints:

- [Tag-based masking policies](https://github.com/dbt-labs/dbt-adapters/issues/85#issuecomment-2310772737).
- [Add a masking policy without a tag](https://github.com/dbt-labs/dbt-adapters/issues/85#issuecomment-2314547162).

Here's an example of how to implement tag-based masking policies with contracts and constraints using the following syntax:
```

</div>

</WHCode>

### Custom constraints on models for advanced configuration of tables

> In dbt Cloud, you can use custom constraints on models for the advanced configuration of tables. Different data warehouses will support different syntax and capabilities, but custom constraints will always allow you to add configuration to specific columns.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In dbt Cloud, you can use custom constraints on models for the advanced configuration of tables. 

Custom constraints allow you to add configuration to specific columns. However, note that different data warehouses support different syntax and capabilities. 
```

> For example, custom constraints allow you to set [masking policies](https://docs.snowflake.com/en/user-guide/security-column-intro#what-are-masking-policies) in Snowflake when using a Create Table As Select (CTAS).

Reviewer 2: sugg bulking both into bullets since they're examples of platforms having diff syntaxes and us linking to their docs

```suggestion
  - For example, custom constraints allow you to set [masking policies](https://docs.snowflake.com/en/user-guide/security-column-intro#what-are-masking-policies) in Snowflake when using a Create Table As Select (CTAS).
  
  - [Databricks](https://docs.databricks.com/en/sql/language-manual/sql-ref-syntax-ddl-create-table-using.html) and [BigQuery](https://cloud.google.com/bigquery/docs/reference/standard-sql/data-definition-language#column_name_and_column_schema) ar other examples of data warehouses having their own set of parameters that can be set for columns in their CTAS statements.
```

> [Databricks](https://docs.databricks.com/en/sql/language-manual/sql-ref-syntax-ddl-create-table-using.html) and [BigQuery](https://cloud.google.com/bigquery/docs/reference/standard-sql/data-definition-language#column_name_and_column_schema) are also other examples of data warehouses having their own set of parameters that can be set for columns in their CTAS statements.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

> There are different scenarios of implementing contracts and constraints:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can implement constraints in a couple of different ways:
```

> - [Tag-based masking policies](https://github.com/dbt-labs/dbt-adapters/issues/85#issuecomment-2310772737).

Reviewer 2: it feels weird that this links to a github issue? shouldn't it maybe link to a '### Custom constraints with tags' header and '### Custom constraints without tags' header?

> - [Add a masking policy without a tag](https://github.com/dbt-labs/dbt-adapters/issues/85#issuecomment-2314547162).

Reviewer 2: same comment as above

Here's an example of how to implement tag-based masking policies with contracts and constraints using the following syntax:

<File name='models/constraints_example.yml'>

```yaml

> models:

Reviewer 2: hmm not sure if this is the right version but the yaml is still formatted incorrectly. i would recommend checking out this page: https://docs-getdbt-rfi9dmjcm-dbt-labs.vercel.app/reference/resource-properties/constraints#defining-constraints to see how the yaml is independent and follow that indentation maybe? sorry if the yaml formatter websites didn't flag this but i do think the yaml isn't formatted right.

Author: Hiya @mirnawong1 

I've checked the YAML is ok for both examples on a few sites and they appear to be correct. Would you have a recommended source / page I can use to tripe check by chance?

Kind Regards
Natalie

  - name: my_model
config: null
contract:
  enforced: true
materialized: table
columns:
  - name: id
    data_type: int
    constraints:
      - type: custom
        expression: tag (my_tag = 'my_value') #  A custom SQL expression used to enforce a specific constraint on a column.

```

</File>

Using this syntax requires configuring all the columns and their types as it’s the only way to send a create or replace `<cols_info_with_masking> mytable as ...`. It’s not possible to do it with just a partial list of columns. This means making sure the columns and constraints fields are fully defined.

To generate a YAML with all the columns, you can use `generate_model_yaml` from [dbt-codegen](https://github.com/dbt-labs/dbt-codegen/tree/0.12.1/?tab=readme-ov-file#generate_model_yaml-source).

> Alternatively, you can add a masking policy without tags:

Author: ```suggestion

### Custom constraints without tags

Alternatively, you can add a masking policy without tags:
```

> Alternatively, you can add a masking policy without tags:

Reviewer 2: recommend having a ### Custom constraints without tags header here before the 'Alternatively..'

<File name='models/constraints_example.yml'>
 
```yaml

> models:

Reviewer 2: this yaml is formatted beautifully!

  - name: my_model
    config:
      contract:
        enforced: true
      materialized: table
    columns:
      - name: id
        data_type: int
        constraints:
          - type: custom

>             expression: masking policy my_policy

Reviewer 2: i think this needs to have quotes to avoid parsing issues
```suggestion
            expression: "masking policy my_policy"
```

</div>

</WHCode>

### Custom constraints on models for advanced configuration of tables

In dbt Cloud, you can use custom constraints on models for the advanced configuration of tables. Different data warehouses support different syntax and capabilities. However, custom constraints allow you to add configuration to specific columns.

  - For example, custom constraints allow you to set [masking policies](https://docs.snowflake.com/en/user-guide/security-column-intro#what-are-masking-policies) in Snowflake when using a Create Table As Select (CTAS).
  
  - [Databricks](https://docs.databricks.com/en/sql/language-manual/sql-ref-syntax-ddl-create-table-using.html) and [BigQuery](https://cloud.google.com/bigquery/docs/reference/standard-sql/data-definition-language#column_name_and_column_schema) ar other examples of data warehouses having their own set of parameters that can be set for columns in their CTAS statements.

You can implement constraints in a couple of different ways:

- ### Custom constraints with tags

> - ### Custom constraints without tags

Author: ```suggestion

```

> - [Tag-based masking policies](https://github.com/dbt-labs/dbt-adapters/issues/85#issuecomment-2310772737).

Author: ```suggestion
- ### Custom constraints with tags
```

> - [Add a masking policy without a tag](https://github.com/dbt-labs/dbt-adapters/issues/85#issuecomment-2314547162).

Author: ```suggestion
- ### Custom constraints without tags
```

</div>

</WHCode>

### Custom constraints on models for advanced configuration of tables

> In dbt Cloud, you can use custom constraints on models for the advanced configuration of tables. Different data warehouses support different syntax and capabilities. However, custom constraints allow you to add configuration to specific columns.

Reviewer 2: just double check if this is something only for dbt cloud? the github issues i think is for core users so wanted to confirm this was what we wanted to communicate @b-per ? https://github.com/dbt-labs/dbt-adapters/issues/85#issuecomment-2310772737

  - For example, custom constraints allow you to set [masking policies](https://docs.snowflake.com/en/user-guide/security-column-intro#what-are-masking-policies) in Snowflake when using a Create Table As Select (CTAS).
  

>   - [Databricks](https://docs.databricks.com/en/sql/language-manual/sql-ref-syntax-ddl-create-table-using.html) and [BigQuery](https://cloud.google.com/bigquery/docs/reference/standard-sql/data-definition-language#column_name_and_column_schema) ar other examples of data warehouses having their own set of parameters that can be set for columns in their CTAS statements.

Author: ```suggestion
  - [Databricks](https://docs.databricks.com/en/sql/language-manual/sql-ref-syntax-ddl-create-table-using.html) and [BigQuery](https://cloud.google.com/bigquery/docs/reference/standard-sql/data-definition-language#column_name_and_column_schema) are other examples of data warehouses having their own set of parameters that can be set for columns in their CTAS statements.
```

You can implement constraints in a couple of different ways:

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

- [Custom constraints with tags](#custom-constraints-with-tags)
- [Custom constraints without tags](#custom-constraints-without-tags)
```

> - ### Custom constraints with tags

Author: ```suggestion
### Custom constraints with tags
```

Here's an example of how to implement tag-based masking policies with contracts and constraints using the following syntax:

<File name='models/constraints_example.yml'>

```yaml

models:
  - name: my_model
    config: null
      contract:
        enforced: true
      materialized: table
    columns:
      - name: id
        data_type: int
        constraints:
          - type: custom

>             expression: tag (my_tag = 'my_value') #  A custom SQL expression used to enforce a specific constraint on a column.

Reviewer 2: i think the expression should be wrapped in quotes. see here: https://github.com/dbt-labs/dbt-adapters/issues/85#issuecomment-2310772737 but double check w Benoit of course!

</div>

</WHCode>

> ### Custom constraints on models for advanced configuration of tables

Reviewer 2: sugg a shorter header since the body goes into detail
```suggestion
### Custom constraints 
```

> In dbt Cloud, you can use custom constraints on models for the advanced configuration of tables. Different data warehouses support different syntax and capabilities. However, custom constraints allow you to add configuration to specific columns.

Author: ```suggestion
In dbt Cloud and dbt Core, you can use custom constraints on models for the advanced configuration of tables. Different data warehouses support different syntax and capabilities. However, custom constraints allow you to add configuration to specific columns.
```

> In dbt Cloud and dbt Core, you can use custom constraints on models for the advanced configuration of tables. Different data warehouses support different syntax and capabilities. However, custom constraints allow you to add configuration to specific columns.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In dbt Cloud and dbt Core, you can use custom constraints on models for the advanced configuration of tables. Different data warehouses support different syntax and capabilities. 

Custom constraints allow you to add configuration to specific columns:
```

  - For example, custom constraints allow you to set [masking policies](https://docs.snowflake.com/en/user-guide/security-column-intro#what-are-masking-policies) in Snowflake when using a Create Table As Select (CTAS).
  
  - [Databricks](https://docs.databricks.com/en/sql/language-manual/sql-ref-syntax-ddl-create-table-using.html) and [BigQuery](https://cloud.google.com/bigquery/docs/reference/standard-sql/data-definition-language#column_name_and_column_schema) are other examples of data warehouses having their own set of parameters that can be set for columns in their CTAS statements.

> You can implement constraints in a couple of different ways:

Reviewer 2: it might be helpful to provide users with info on when or why they would implement with tags or without tags?  like what are the benefits of either? maybe @b-per can provide some context on why a user would implement one over the other?

Author: Hiya @mirnawong1 @b-per 

Apologies for the delay in getting back to you both on this. I was having a look into the benefits of implementing custom constraints with tags and found they offer users: improvement of data quality, aids organisation, and allows for scalable, reusable, and flexible management of validation rules across projects.

And the benefits of using custom constraints without tags offers simplicity (easier debugging and no overheads in the sense that constraints are applied directly to specific models or columns), greater control, and minimal project complexity are priorities.

I can add this to each expandable section if you're happy for me to do so?

Kind Regards
Natalie

Reviewer: I think I mentioned it before, but I don't think that we need to give too much explanation on tags. This is a data warehouse more than a dbt feature. I just want people already interested in applying tags to know how to do it in dbt, not to teach people that they might want to use tags.

- [Custom constraints with tags](#custom-constraints-with-tags)
- [Custom constraints without tags](#custom-constraints-without-tags)
### Custom constraints with tags

Here's an example of how to implement tag-based masking policies with contracts and constraints using the following syntax:

<File name='models/constraints_example.yml'>

```yaml

models:
  - name: my_model

>     config: null

Reviewer 2: i dont think we have a `null` here ? cc @b-per 

```suggestion
    config:
```

      contract:
        enforced: true

>       materialized: table

Reviewer 2: materialized should be nested under contract
```suggestion
        materialized: table
```

Reviewer 2: @b-per 's example here has the right yaml format: https://github.com/dbt-labs/dbt-adapters/issues/85#issuecomment-2314547162

    columns:
      - name: id
        data_type: int
        constraints:
          - type: custom

>             expression: tag (my_tag = 'my_value') #  A custom SQL expression used to enforce a specific constraint on a column.

Author: ```suggestion
            expression: "tag (my_tag = 'my_value')" #  A custom SQL expression used to enforce a specific constraint on a column.
```

</div>

</WHCode>

> ### Custom constraints 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Custom constraints 
```

In dbt Cloud and dbt Core, you can use custom constraints on models for the advanced configuration of tables. Different data warehouses support different syntax and capabilities. 

> Custom constraints allow you to add configuration to specific columns:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Custom constraints allow you to add configuration to specific columns. For example:
```

>   - For example, custom constraints allow you to set [masking policies](https://docs.snowflake.com/en/user-guide/security-column-intro#what-are-masking-policies) in Snowflake when using a Create Table As Select (CTAS).

Reviewer 2: removing the 'example' as there are a few of them in these two bullets:

```suggestion
  - Set [masking policies](https://docs.snowflake.com/en/user-guide/security-column-intro#what-are-masking-policies) in Snowflake when using a Create Table As Select (CTAS).
```

>   - Other data warehouses (such as [Databricks](https://docs.databricks.com/en/sql/language-manual/sql-ref-syntax-ddl-create-table-using.html) and [BigQuery](https://cloud.google.com/bigquery/docs/reference/standard-sql/data-definition-language#column_name_and_column_schema)) have their own set of parameters that can be set for columns in their CTAS statements.

Author: ```suggestion
  - Other data warehouses (such as [Databricks](https://docs.databricks.com/en/sql/language-manual/sql-ref-syntax-ddl-create-table-using.html) and [BigQuery](https://cloud.google.com/bigquery/docs/reference/standard-sql/data-definition-language#column_name_and_column_schema) have their own set of parameters that can be set for columns in their CTAS statements.
```

>   - [Databricks](https://docs.databricks.com/en/sql/language-manual/sql-ref-syntax-ddl-create-table-using.html) and [BigQuery](https://cloud.google.com/bigquery/docs/reference/standard-sql/data-definition-language#column_name_and_column_schema) are other examples of data warehouses having their own set of parameters that can be set for columns in their CTAS statements.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - Other data warehouses (such as [Databricks](https://docs.databricks.com/en/sql/language-manual/sql-ref-syntax-ddl-create-table-using.html) and [BigQuery](https://cloud.google.com/bigquery/docs/reference/standard-sql/data-definition-language#column_name_and_column_schema)) have their own set of parameters that can be set for columns in their CTAS statements.
```
